## FAQ for Low Power



### 1. Why does the system still not go to sleep when I configure Sleep mode?
-   In this case, the peripheral is still working, which prevents the system from going to sleep. You can refer to the method of the community forum. Find working peripherals: https://developers.goodix.com/zh/bbs/detail/bec3c962c72c4988bb6852ae250e9e8b.



### 2. Does the system not go to sleep after a UART call ```app_uart_receive_async```?

-   After the app _ UART _ receive _ async is called, the RX Busy state will prevent the system from entering sleep because no data has been received. At this time, the app _ UART _ abort can be called to quit receiving data, and then the system can enter sleep normally.

    

### 3. J-Link connection failed, SK board cannot download firmware, why?
- Problem analysis: When downloading the firmware, the chip may be in a sleep state (that is, the program with the sleep mode turned on is running), causing the J-Link to be unable to interact with the PC, and the SK board to be unable to connect or download the firmware normally.
- Solution: Press the key of the `RESET` SK board and download the firmware again at an interval of about 1 second.



### 4. The wake-up time is not set in the program, and the Bluetooth is not turned on. After directly entering the sleep mode, why does it wake up automatically every 30 seconds?

- In the SDK package, PMU calibration at 30 s intervals is enabled by default, which enhances the robustness of the system PMU.

```
#ifndef DRIVER_TEST
/* Enable auto pmu calibration function period =3s on default. */
system_pmu_calibration_init(30000);
#endif
```



### 5. J-Log is no longer output after a part of Log is output in the Link RTT Viewer. Why?
-   The J-Link Link RTT Viewer is based on the Memory reading and writing of the J-Link. When the chip is sleeping, the J-Link will be disconnected, so the RTT cannot output the Log normally.

