## Encryption and Signature



### 1. Security Solution

- GR5xxx series chips use the chip's internal encryption engine in conjunction with external supporting tools to provide a complete security solution.
- Developers can configure the chip securely through tools (e.g. GProgrammer), and then realize the protection of the chip through the secure boot initiated by the internal ROM of the chip.
- The security solution mainly includes System Configuration Area (SCA) message authentication, firmware and data encryption and decryption, and digital signature.
- Typical GR5xxx low-power consumption values are as follows (see corresponding chip Datasheet for more details)

| Chip | Encryption | Signature | SCA Security Algorithm | Firmware Security Algorithm | Data Security Algorithm | Signature Security Algorithm |
| ------ | --------|---------|---------------|--------------------------|----------------|----------------|
| GR551x |    √    |    √    |  HMAC-SHA256  |	ECC P-256 & PRESENT-128 |   PRESENT-128  |   RSASSA-PSS   |
| GR5525 |    √    |    √    |  HMAC-SHA256  |	ECC P-256 & PRESENT-128 |   PRESENT-128  | RSASSA-PSS / ECDSA  |
| GR5526 |    √    |    √    |  HMAC-SHA256  |	ECC P-256 & PRESENT-128 |   PRESENT-128  |   RSASSA-PSS   |
| GR533x |    ×    |    √    |      ×        |            ×             |        x       |     ECDSA      |



### 2. Tool-side workflow

- Generate key information such as firmware, data, hmac, signature;
- According to the above data, generate Efuse burn files: Encrypt_key_info.bin and Mode_control.bin, etc.
- Burn Encrypt_key_info.bin and Mode_control.bin to Efuse to enable the hardware encryption mode of the chip.
- The tool side encrypts and signs the firmware, and then adds the following information to the firmware:
	- firmware pub key related parameters
	- signature pub key related parameters
	- signature pub key Hash data
	- Signature of the encrypted firmware file
- When burning the encrypted and signed firmware on the tool side, it will encrypt and burn the SCA area information and attach the HMAC.



### 3. Device-side workflow

- Read the Efuse information to determine whether the chip enables hardware encryption mode and whether SWD is turned on;
- Trigger Efuse controller to send each key to Keyram;
- Calculate whether the HMAC of SCA area information matches with the HMAC of SCA storage, and complete the verification of SCA information;
- Use the Data Key to decrypt the SCA area information and obtain the boot info;
- Determine the firmware load location and size according to the boot info, obtain the signature pub key related parameters, signature pub key Hash data, and encrypt the signature of the firmware file;
- Calculate the signature pub key related parameters Hash, and match with the Hash in Efuse for verification;
- Calculate the signature pub key using the signature pub key related parameters;
- Use the signature pub key to decrypt the signature of the encrypted firmware file to obtain the Hash of the firmware file calculated by the tool.
- For the firmware file Hash calculation to get a summary, and the tool side of the calculation of the firmware file Hash match verification
- After the signature is verified, get the parameters related to the firmware pub key at the end of the firmware, and calculate the symmetric key FW Code Key with the parameters of the generated firmware key in efuse;



### 4. Tool side (GProgrammer) encryption and signature operation

- Input Name and ID, configure Firmware Key (choose Using Random Key for the first time), Security Mode, SWD, Sign Algorithm (only for GR5525), generate Efuse File.
- Burn Encrypt_key_info.bin and Mode_control.bin Efuse File to the chip side;
- Select Product Info, Random Number (Use Random Number for the first time), and Firmware file to be encrypted and signed.
- Generate Encrypt and Sign Firmware file.



### 5. GProgrammer Sign-Only Operation

- Sign-only mode is a later extension, it will not verify the signature of the jumped firmware when roms are booted, this mode is applied to the app bootloader to verify the user app firmware or DFU firmware.
- This mode is used in app bootloader to verify user app firmware or DFU firmware. Signature-only mode does not need to burn and generate Efuse File, so you need to fill in the signature pub key hash data in Public_key_hash.txt in the app bootloader configuration file.
- Uncheck Encrypt, only Sign will sign the target firmware.



### 6. Uncheck Encrypt, only Sign will sign the target Firmware.

- In the product application, there will be app bootloader firmware and user app firmware, when encrypting and signing the two files, the same firmware.key and random.bin must be used, otherwise the hardware will load the FW Code configured by the app bootloader firmware and the user app firmware. Otherwise, the hardware loads the FW Code configured by the app bootloader firmware, and the user app firmware will fail to decrypt the key, resulting in a failed jump. If you check Using Random Key and Using Random Nuber when generating encrypted files for the first time, you should select the generated firmware.key and random.bin when encrypting and signing the firmware in the future.