# BLE Product Certification Guidelines

## 1. BQB Certification

* Bluetooth certification, also known as BQB certification, simply means that if your product has Bluetooth functionality and is labeled with the Bluetooth logo on the exterior of the product, it must be certified by the Bluetooth BQB, otherwise the product will be regarded as an infringement by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group (SIG).The BQB certification is one of the basic Bluetooth product certification programs currently administered by the SIG. BQB certification is one of the basic certification programs for Bluetooth products, which is currently managed by SIG.

* BQB certification is one of the basic certification programs for Bluetooth products, which is currently managed by SIG. The test items required for certification can be divided into two parts: PTS certification + EBQ/Harmony certification.

* Different Bluetooth protocol stack layers with different certification methods:
  * PTS certification: ATT, GATT, GAP, L2CAP, SM
  * EBQ/Harmony certification: LL, RF PHY

* Authentication Type:
  * Bluetooth End Product: the final product, that corresponds to the final presentation of the product on the market certification, this type of product should include the entire Bluetooth protocol layer certification: Host + Controller + RF PHY + Profile (option).
  * Bluetooth Controller Subsystem Product: The complete subsystem certification which only includes the Controller part, this part should include the LL and RF PHY part.
  * Bluetooth Host Subsystem Product: Full subsystem certification for the Host part only, which should include the full Host stack.
  * Bluetooth Profile Subsystem Product: complete subsystem certification with only the Profile part, which is mainly various profiles, including Mesh Stack and Mesh Model.
  * Bluetooth Component Product: Bluetooth stack components that do not contain Profile, generally components can be divided into three separate categories: Host Component, Controller Component, RF PHY Component. these three categories can also be combined with each other, such as Host + Controller + RF PHY Component. Controller + RF PHY Component.
  * Bluetooth Test Equipment: Bluetooth test equipment certification.
  * Bluetooth Development Tool: Bluetooth development firmware certification, such as PTS.

Bluetooth Development Tool: Bluetooth development firmware certification, such as PTS. * As a chip manufacturer, we mainly provide two types of certification: Component Product and End Product.
  * Component Product is provided to users who need to modify the chip design, modify it by themselves and re-certify the certification process, the unmodified part does not need to be re-certified. [Certification process that requires testing](https://www.bluetooth.com/zh-cn/develop-with-bluetooth/qualification-listing/qualification-process-with-required- testing/)
  * End Product is provided to users who do not need to modify the chip design, only need to combine the Profile Subsystem, after re-purchasing the DID for the product, a new End Product will be generated.[Certification process without testing](https://www.bluetooth.com/zh-cn/develop-) with-bluetooth/qualification-listing/qualification-process-with-no-required-testing/)

* The following is the current certification status of our series of chips:

| SoC                                                          | Product Type       | QDID   |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------ | ------ |
| [GR551X](https://launchstudio.bluetooth.com/ListingDetails/70100) | Component (Tested) | 119449 |
| [GR551X](https://launchstudio.bluetooth.com/ListingDetails/154619) | End Product        | 188689 |
| [GR533x](https://launchstudio.bluetooth.com/ListingDetails/143156) | Component (Tested) | 203122 |
| [GR533x](https://launchstudio.bluetooth.com/ListingDetails/196149) | End Product        | 224792 |
| [GR5525](https://launchstudio.bluetooth.com/ListingDetails/143156) | Component (Tested) | 203134 |
| [GR5526](https://launchstudio.bluetooth.com/ListingDetails/143156) | Component (Tested) | 179976 |
| [GR5526](https://launchstudio.bluetooth.com/ListingDetails/144553) | End Product        | 181083 |

* **Both Component Product and End Product, when using our chips to apply to a new product, it is necessary to purchase an additional DID from the SIG submission process to identify the new product. **
* [BLE SIG Qualification Process Overview](https://www.bluetooth.com/zh-cn/develop-with-bluetooth/qualification-listing/)
* **BQB Qualification Requirements Testing **
  * Testing
  * Documentation
  * Documentation Submission
  * Assessment Review
  * Supplier Conformance Statement
  * Compliance with audit and enforcement procedures
* **Information to be prepared for BQB certification **
  * Company information (name, address, contact person, contact information, business e-mail)
  * Product model number
  * Provide user name and password after registration (can be registered at SIG)
  * Samples or provide sample photos (multi-side appearance photos)
  * Authorization letter (provided by the module company)
  * Product picture
* **Certification cycle**: 3~4 weeks
* For filling out the BQB certification information, you can refer to the community post “[How to fill out the BQB certification information for GR551X](https://developers.goodix.com/zh/bbs/detail/c62ed8f6910b4c26a6ca343a084cb6f0 )”.
* For DTM test principle and method, you can refer to “[GR5xx DTM Test Guide](https://docs.goodix.com/zh/online/detail/dtm_test_bl/V3.3/e382dde981ce60eedafeab67e75310a3)”.



## 2. SRRC Certification

* [SRRC](http://www.srrc.org.cn/) certification is a mandatory requirement of the Ministry of Information Industry (MII) of China, which stipulates that all radio component products sold and used in China must obtain radio type approval certification (i.e. SRRC certification) The SRRC is a mandatory requirement for all radio component products sold and used in China. Formerly known as the State Radio Regulation Committee (SRRC), China's State Radio Monitoring Center (SRMC) is currently the only organization in China authorized to test and certify radio type approval regulations.
* **SRRC Application Procedure**
  * Confirm whether the product is in the scope of SRRC
  * Organize the SRRC certification information, prepare SRRC prototypes
  * Mapping test to ensure that the certification can be passed
  * Submit application, wait for scheduling
  * Send samples to the organization for testing, and upload certification information and technical data
  * Test samples and review information
  * Test completed, data review is correct, issue certification
* **SRRC certification materials**
  * Application form
  * Power of attorney
  * Letter of Commitment
  * Business license (annual inspection can not be expired)
  * The number of prototypes depends on different products, some prototypes need to lead out the RF line (and RF port or SMA port)
  * ISO certificate or company profile and company capability statement
  * Product specifications, circuit diagrams, manuals, block diagrams, operating instructions
  * Antenna gain
  * Testing instruction
  * Color photo of EUT, nameplate (must include each interface and each side)
  * Frequency channel cross-reference table (required if there are multiple operating channels)
* **Certification cycle**: about 8 weeks



## 3. CE Certification

* CE certification, which provides a unified technical specification for products from various countries to trade in the European market and simplifies the trade procedures. Any country's products to enter the European Union, the European Free Trade Area must be CE certified, CE marking on the product. Therefore, CE marking is the passport for products to enter the market of EU and EFTA countries.

* CE certification indicates that the product has met the safety requirements set out in the EU Directive, is the commitment of the enterprise to consumers, increasing the degree of consumer trust in the product, affixed with the CE mark of the product will reduce the risk of sales in the European market.

* **CE certification test program**: electromagnetic compatibility test (EMC test), safety test LVD, radio communication equipment testing according to the European ETSI standards, the European permitted spectrum information notification, CTR (TBR) test, electrical safety and health protection test.

* **CE certification process**: fill out the application form -> apply for the company information sheet -> provide product information and send samples -> according to the information provided to determine the test standards, test time and offer -> applicant to confirm the offer, payment -> product testing -> test passed, the report is completed -> project completion, the issuance of CE certification.

* **CE certification materials**: product instruction manual, circuit schematic diagram, circuit block diagram (Block Diagram, also known as module function diagram), circuit alignment diagram (PCB Layout), circuit bit number diagram (PCB), operation description (interpretation of the block diagram), component list (BOM List), Label (label), antenna specifications (or antenna gain), LVD report of charger, and antenna gain diagram. diagram), charger LVD report, DTM test firmware.

* **Certification cycle**: 10 to 15 working days.



## 4. FCC Certification

* FCC full name of the U.S. Federal Communications Commission, all electronic products entering the United States are required to carry out electromagnetic compatibility certification. Products that wish to be exported to the U.S. must be tested and approved by a government-authorized laboratory according to FCC technical standards. Importers and customs agents are required to declare that each radio frequency device complies with FCC standards, i.e., the FCC license. Simply put FCC certification is a mandatory certification of products to enter the U.S. market, there are two types of certification, namely, FCCID and FCCSDoC, with wireless transmitting devices to do FCCID, the other will do FCCSDoC.

* **FCC certification classification**
  1. Finished product certification: certification of complete wireless devices, including modules, motherboards, peripheral circuits, enclosures, etc.
  2. Module Certification: Module certification is subdivided into two types, a restricted module certification, a non-restricted module certification, restricted wireless module is the type of installation host is restricted, while the non-restricted module is the installation of the host is not restricted, the module can be used as a stand-alone system work.
  3. PC I certification / PC II certification: a class of changes and two types of changes in two types of certification, when the certified products appear different changes, certification of these changes how to deal with, basically in accordance with these two types of changes in the way.
* **FCC test items**
  * Conducted Emission
  * Radiation Spurious Emission
  * Conducted Peak Output Power, limit: less than or equal to 21 dBm or 30 dBm.
  * 20 dB Occupied Bandwidth, limit: none
  * Carrier Frequencies Separation, limit: >25 kHz or >two-thirds of the 20 dB bandwidth
  * Hopping Channel Number, limit: ≥15 channels
  * Dwell Time, limit: <0.4s
  * Band Edge
  * Antenna Requirement
* **FCC certification process**
  * The device manufacturer should authorize the test lab to apply for the FCC assignee code
  * The FCC sends the Assignee Code to the device manufacturer.
  * Device manufacturers submit their devices to an accredited test lab for evaluation
  * The test lab will test the device against appropriate standards
  * Once the testing is successful, the test lab creates a detailed test report and submits it to the FCC
  * FCC will respond to the request for certification within 8 to 12 weeks
* **FCC Certification Materials**
  * User Manual
  * Block Diagram
  * Circuit Schematic Operation Description
  * Circuit Schematic
  * RF Modulation
  * Rated Power Declaration
  * Application Form TCB Form 731
  * Letter of Authorization POA
  * FCC Confidentiality Letter
* **Certification cycle**: 3 to 5 weeks



## 5. Other Certifications

* **KCC Certification **

  KCC is a Korean safety certification mark and is a mandatory certification in Korea. Domestic and foreign manufacturers must obtain Korean safety certification before exporting electronic products to Korea. Bluetooth products exported to Korea KCC is a mandatory certification, it should be noted that in addition to the finished product KCC, if the product with battery or adapter, the battery and adapter also need to do KCC certification. If it is a high voltage product, you need to send the customs code to check if you want to do KCC certification.

- **TELEC Certification** 

  TELEC certification is required for wireless products (Bluetooth products, cell phones, Wi-Fi routers, drones, etc.) exported to Japan. TELEC certification is a mandatory product certification in Japan, and wireless electronic products have always had a high level of attention in the Japanese market.



## 6. Description of RSE Certification

* In the product certification, the most important one is RSE certification, radiation spurious as an important product certification of the whole machine, affected by a number of factors, of which the board-level design is particularly critical. In order to reduce the risk of RSE certification of the whole machine, the board-level design needs to follow the following design rules:
  * RF matching device layout should be prioritized to ensure that the RF_TX pin and RF_TX pin in a straight line, and strictly comply with the order of matching device sequential layout.
  * The first ground capacitor and series inductor in the RF matching circuit should be as close as possible to the chip pins. It is recommended that the distance from the first capacitor to Pin should be ≤ 1.5 mm, and the distance from the series inductor to Pin should be ≤ 2.5 mm, and the over-hole should be placed near the grounding point to limit the harmonic currents spreading in the top layer of copper skin.
  * GAP ≥ 10 mil between RF TRX line and neighboring copper layer edge, and over-hole is placed close to copper layer edge (return path), over-hole spacing ≤ 1.5 mm.
  * Decoupling capacitors in the VBAT_RF/VDD_RF network should be placed as close as possible to the corresponding pins of the chip to help minimize radiation.
  * If the adjacent Pin of RF TRX is signal/power network, it is recommended to exit from the via to the inner layer.
  * For more detailed design recommendations, please refer to the hardware design guide corresponding to each chip item.


* FCC RSE Certification Considerations
  * For the FCC Radiated Spurious Ave Average test item, Goodix Bluetooth LE recommends using the DCCF (Duty Cycle Compensation Factor) conversion method to obtain it. This method complies with FCC regulations and is applicable to DTS (Data Transmission Service) devices.
  * FCC official document KDB558074, “Compliance Test Guidelines for Equipment Complying with FCC Chapter 15.247 for Digital Transmission Systems, Frequency Hopping Spread Spectrum Systems, and Hybrid Systems,” explicitly mentions that DTS equipment can use the DCCF calculation method to obtain the mean radiated spurious results.
  * More details can be found in “[GR551x FCC RSE Certification Note](https://docs.goodix.com/zh/online/detail/fcc_rse_certificate_bl_a/V1.1/2df01d6e7e4259b914a2b86daed7de82)”.

